---
title: "Physics-Constrained Local Convexity Data-Driven Modeling of Anisotropic Nonlinear Elastic Solids"
collection: publications
permalink: 
excerpt: ''
date: 2020-01-01
venue: 'Data-Centric Engineering'
paperurl: ''
citation: 'He, X., He, Q., Chen, J. S., Sinha, U., & Sinha, S. (2020). &quot;Physics-Constrained Local Convexity Data-Driven Modeling of Anisotropic Nonlinear Elastic Solids; <i>Data-Centric Engineering</i>. 1, e19.'
---

As characterization and modeling of complex materials by phenomenological models remains challenging, data-driven computing that performs physical simulations directly from material data has attracted considerable attention. Data-driven computing is a general computational mechanics framework that consists of a physical solver and a material solver, based on which data-driven solutions are obtained through minimization procedures. This work develops a new material solver built upon the local convexity-preserving reconstruction scheme by He and Chen (2020) A physics-constrained data-driven approach based on locally convex reconstruction for noisy database. Computer Methods in Applied Mechanics and Engineering 363, 112791 to model anisotropic nonlinear elastic solids. In this approach, a two-level local data search algorithm for material anisotropy is introduced into the material solver in online data-driven computing. A material anisotropic state characterizing the underlying material orientation is used for the manifold learning projection in the material solver. The performance of the proposed data-driven framework with noiseless and noisy material data is validated by solving two benchmark problems with synthetic material data. The data-driven solutions are compared with the constitutive model-based reference solutions to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed methods.

[Link](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/data-centric-engineering/article/physicsconstrained-local-convexity-datadriven-modeling-of-anisotropic-nonlinear-elastic-solids/4C93F15C8E0B841429C47C2929EA7B49)
